Multithreading in Java is a programming concept that allows multiple parts of a program (called threads) to run concurrently —
i.e., at the same time — to make better use of  CPU resources and improve performance, especially in applications that perform many
tasks simultaneously.
Multithreading is the ability of a CPU (or a single program) to execute multiple threads
independently but within the same process, sharing the same memory space.

1. Improves performance by executing tasks in parallel
2. Better CPU utilization

Term	     Description
Thread	     Smallest unit of execution within a process.
Process  	 An executing instance of a program. A process can contain multiple threads.
Main Thread	 The first thread started when a Java program runs (executes the main() method).
Concurrency	 Executing multiple tasks at the same time (not necessarily simultaneously).
Parallelism	 Actually running multiple tasks at the same instant (on multi-core CPUs).


A thread goes through several states:

New – Thread object created, but not started.

Runnable – Thread is ready to run or running.

Blocked/Waiting – Waiting for a resource or another thread.

Timed Waiting – Waiting for a specific time period.

Terminated – Thread has finished execution.

start()	Starts a new thread and calls run() method.
run()	Defines the code executed by the thread.
sleep(ms)	Makes thread sleep for given milliseconds.
join()	Waits for another thread to complete.
yield()	Pauses current thread to let others execute.
isAlive()	Checks if the thread is still running.

Real-World Examples

Web servers handling multiple requests

Background tasks (file upload/download)

Game loops (rendering, physics, input)

Parallel data processing

By default, Spring Boot uses an embedded Tomcat server.

maxThreads = 200
That means 200 concurrent threads can handle incoming HTTP requests by default.

You can configure it in application.properties:
server.tomcat.max-threads=500


Thread -A worker which works on the task

Task - A unit of work — the logic/code that needs to be executed.

Normalization is the process of organizing database tables to:

✅ Eliminate data redundancy (duplicate data).

✅ Ensure data consistency and integrity.

✅ Divide large tables into smaller related tables.

Instead of storing customer + order + address in the same table, we separate into:

Customer Table (CustomerID, Name)

Address Table (AddressID, CustomerID, Address)

Order Table (OrderID, CustomerID, Product, Quantity)

advantages of Normalization:

Advantage	Why It’s Useful
No Data Redundancy	Saves storage and avoids duplicate data
Data Consistency	Update data in one place reflects everywhere
Better Data Integrity	Easier to enforce foreign key relationships
Easier Maintenance	Smaller, simpler tables

Q. What is Denormalization in DBMS?
Denormalization is the process of combining tables to reduce the number of joins and improve read performance, at the cost of
introducing some redundancy. Instead of keeping Customer and Address in separate tables, combine them into a single table:

Advantage	Why It’s Useful
Faster Reads	No need for multiple table joins during query


